I am in the process of migrating all of my repositories to https://codeberg.org/bit101

Some of them were just very old. Quick experiments that I made a repo for but never did anything more with. Old JS libraries from more than a decade ago that just don't reflect current coding workflows. A lot of them I am just deleting. Others might have something interesting that I may want to dig up again some time in the future. Those I'll probably clone and zip up as one big package in my personal backed up file server. What's left is stuff that I think will possibly be relevant - either to myself or maybe to someone else. Those are going to Codeberg. Sorry if there is some library that you actualy use. Everything that gets moved over will be a straight migration, so you should be able to simply update the repo endpoint from github.com to codeberg.org and all else should work.

Why am I doing this? I'm just not comfortable keeping my code on github anymore.

I was a (relatively) early adopter of git. Certainly the first person in the company I was at at the time to see the benefits of git over svn, which is what we were using. I had arguments about it. I can't say I won those arguments, but time did and of course almost everyone uses git for almost everything now. And very early on, github was the default place to host your repos. They innovated above and beyond what git alone offered, and have continued to innovate and provide great tools to the community. Then they were acquired by Microsoft. A lot of people were worried and many left then. I stuck around.

In 2025 though, I am far less comfortable here. Some points that cause me concern:

- Thomas Dohmke was, up until recently the CEO of github. Recently he wrote a post, [Developers, Reinvented](https://ashtom.github.io/developers-reinvented) where he goes on at length pushing the point that traditional development is dead. In the second paragraph, he approvingly quotes another developer: "Either you have to embrace the Al, or you get out of your career". He goes on to say that rather than coding, developers will "now focus on the delegation and the verification of a task." Developers will be creating prompts, and AI will be "writing 90% of their code". This is not why I became a programmer and is not a future I am interested in. Yes, many of the engineers where I work are starting to embrace AI, mostly with a fair bit of skepticism, thankfully. I'm not forbidding or discouraging anyone from using AI, but I'm not advocating it or pushing it on them either.
- Shortly after the above post was published, Dohmke "resigned" his post and github moved into Microsoft's CoreAI division, which is led by former Meta executive Jay Parikh. Parikh made Facebook engineering teams what they are and plans a transformation of Microsoft into an "AI agent factory".
- Julia Liuson, Developer Division President at Microsoft, recently emailed managers in the company telling them to evaluate employees based on their use of AI tools, saying AI "should be part of your holistic reflections on an individual's performance and impact." and "using AI is no longer optional." https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-internal-memo-using-ai-no-longer-optional-github-copilot-2025-6
- Beyond all that, there are more general concerns I have about the use of AI - not only github's use. The theft of intellectual property, including code, to train models, the environmental impact of the data warehouses doing all this training, the brain drain this is going to have on students and knowledge workers another ten years or so in the future. I'm sick to death of every product I use trying to shove their "AI assistant" down my neck. I'm tired of the AI slop I see all over Youtube, etc. and other formerly decent tech sites that now host AI generated articles that make no sense at all.

I realize that I am probably on the wrong side of history. AI is not going to go away and more and more developers will be using it more and more every day in their jobs. Some time in the near future, engineers may not understand any of the code that they push into production, they'll only know the prompts they used to make it. Maybe that's not so fundamentally different than saying that engineers don't understand the machine code that gets generated from the source code they write. I think it's a big difference and it makes me sad.

I'm into my 60s now and staring at retirement some time in the next several years. I don't write code day-to-day for a living, but manage engineers and engineering projects. But I have a passion for writing code and I'm always working away on some project in my own time. I have no interest in the direction things are going.

So anyway, I don't feel welcome here. I'm moving my code to a platform that is not (yet) going down the same path, [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/bit101). I wish all developers well and hope that however you create your code, it's fulfilling to you. 
